v1 BUILD 18:
OK, Whisper fans, it's the moment you've been waiting for: Whisper can now talk over the internet!!  That's definitely what you will want to try out on this build.  (There are a few other small improvements, but they are not as important.) In the released version on the App Store, whispering over the internet will be a paid feature (because the cloud infrastructure it uses has to be rented), but as my greatly valued testers you can all try it for free!

You will see a new row of buttons for whispering or listening over the internet (look for the network symbol on the buttons). Under the Whisper to internet button you will see a "Share URL" button - that's the URL you need to give to your internet listeners so they can connect - messaging them works well.  (Bluetooth listeners don't need the URL, of course, and yes you are whispering over both Bluetooth and the internet at the same time.) Under the Listen to Internet button you will see a "Retrieve URL" button - that looks for a whisper URL on the clipboard and copies to the app so it can be listened to.

People with the whisper app should not need to do the copy/paste thing in order to listen: just clicking on the URL in a message (or anywhere) should launch the Whisper app and start it listening.  But if you have Chrome as your default browser you might need to copy the URL and then do the paste thing in the Whisper app.

There is a single "Whisper URL" for each device, so once you've shared your device's link with someone else they can always use it to listen to your device.  But of course messaging them again will let them know you're ready to whisper.

Please give it a try and let me know what you think.  Feel free to text me your whisper URL and we can connect.


v1 BUILD 19:
This is a bug-fix build that addresses some of the issues noticed in the first internet-capable build.  Here are the issues that are definitely fixed:

- the one where you had to manually select a whisperer in Bluetooth mode.

- the one where you couldn't share the Whisper URL once you had started to Whisper (now you can share it from the status line).

Here is the big issue that is *maybe, finally fixed*:

- the one where the listener would see ghost past text from prior sessions

Please report ASAP if you are seeing sudden connection drops for what appears to be no reason.

Here is a repeat of the testing instructions for internet-based use:

You will see a new row of buttons for whispering or listening over the internet (look for the network symbol on the buttons). Under the Whisper to internet button you will see a "Share URL" button - that's the URL you need to give to your internet listeners so they can connect - messaging them works well.  (Bluetooth listeners don't need the URL, of course, and yes you are whispering over both Bluetooth and the internet at the same time.) Under the Listen to Internet button you will see a "Retrieve URL" button - that looks for a whisper URL on the clipboard and copies to the app so it can be listened to.

People with the whisper app should not need to do the copy/paste thing in order to listen: just clicking on the URL in a message (or anywhere) should launch the Whisper app and start it listening.  But if you have Chrome as your default browser you might need to copy the URL and then do the paste thing in the Whisper app.

There is a single "Whisper URL" for each device, so once you've shared your device's link with someone else they can always use it to listen to your device.  But of course messaging them again will let them know you're ready to whisper.

v1 BUILD 22:
IMPORTANT NOTE FOR TESTERS: Delete your current build of Whisper before you install this one!!  On MacOS, that means not only deleting the application but also going into your ~/Library/Containers directory and deleting the Whisper item found there.

This is a bug-fix build that addresses the flakiness in internet connectivity noticed on some devices.  In addition, the whisperer and listener views show whether the remote is connected via internet or bluetooth.

Here is a repeat of the testing instructions for internet-based use:

You will see a new row of buttons for whispering or listening over the internet (look for the network symbol on the buttons). Under the Whisper to internet button you will see a "Share URL" button - that's the URL you need to give to your internet listeners so they can connect - messaging them works well.  (Bluetooth listeners don't need the URL, of course, and yes you are whispering over both Bluetooth and the internet at the same time.) Under the Listen to Internet button you will see a "Retrieve URL" button - that looks for a whisper URL on the clipboard and copies to the app so it can be listened to.

People with the whisper app should not need to do the copy/paste thing in order to listen: just clicking on the URL in a message (or anywhere) should launch the Whisper app and start it listening.  But if you have Chrome as your default browser you might need to copy the URL and then do the paste thing in the Whisper app.

There is a single "Whisper URL" for each device, so once you've shared your device's link with someone else they can always use it to listen to your device.  But of course messaging them again will let them know you're ready to whisper.

v1 BUILDS 30 (internal) & 31 (external):
This is a cosmetic improvement and bug fix release:

1. Hopefully it addresses the "nonny is gay" bug.  But I've been wrong about that before :).
2. The buttons accomodate larger-size text on iPhones for us old folks.
3. I'm collecting a bit more diagnostic data to help track down bugs.  This data is never associated with user's identities in any way.
4. Internet listening will more reliably show the name of the whisperer.

v1 BUILDS 32 (internal) & 33 (external):
This build introduces several changes:

1. Listeners don't stop when they disconnect from a whisperer.  Instead they try to reconnect.  So connections are much more stable.
2. When a listener connects to a whisperer, they don't get any of the whisperer's past text, just the current live text (if any).
3. The whisperer can edit all their past text, and can copy and paste it.
4. Listeners cannot edit or copy past text (just like a conversation).
5. Listeners can choose whether they want live text on the top (as it has been) or on the bottom (the way the whisperer sees it).

NOTE: If you get a message when internet whispering about not being able to authenticate, try quitting and restarting the app.  If that doesn't work, delete and then reinstall the app.

v1 BUILD 35 (external):
Another cosmetic improvement and bug fix release:

1. Past text should now scroll correctly (so the most recent line is always visible).

2. For the listener, past text is never selectable (so it can't be copied).

3. For the whisperer, past text is not selectable by default, so accidental clicks don't shift focus to that area.  But the whisperer can explicitly start and end edit sessions over past text, in case they want to copy and paste portions into the live text area.

4. The preferences have been revamped to be more useful and more understandable:

    a. You can no longer set your name in the preferences (because you can do that in the app), but you can now choose not to remember your name from session to session (for use on shared devices).
    b. The app now always starts with the choice screen (no preference for starting as a listener or a whisperer).
    c. The listener can now choose whether they want the live text window on top or bottom of the screen.

5. The whisperer can now change the alert sound while in a session.  Long-pressing the alert button brings up a menu of the available sounds.

6. When there is only one listener, the whisper status text shows their name.

v1 BUILD 36 (external):
This build simplifies the choice screen: there is now just one Whisper button and one Listen button.  The Whisper button always sends whispers both via bluetooth and the internet, but the Listen button only listens via bluetooth. This means the only way to Listen via the internet is to click on a "Listen to ..." link sent from the whisperer, which will start a "listen to internet" session.

v1 BUILD 37 (internal):
This build moves us to three documentation buttons: How To Use, About, and Support.

v1 BUILD 38 (internal):
This build adds a version string to the main screen and updates the app icon.

v1 BUILD 39 (external):
This build improves the documentation and support options:

- There are now How To Use, About, and Support buttons, which display appropriate info in a browser.

- The webpage for the Support button links to a Google Form which allows for reporting bugs to, asking questions of, and providing direct feedback to the development team.

- The bottom of the main screen shows the application version, for use in feedback.

In addition, the app icon has been revamped to use a white dashed line, which is both prettier and more readable than the prior black dashed line.

v1 BUILD 40 (internal):
This build makes preference changes recommended by the docs writer:

- Make the whisper alert sound only changeable from the whisper view.

- Make the in-session controls for reading whispers aloud be the only controls for it, and separate the whisper and listener values so they are remembered separately.

- Reword the bluetooth pairing setting so it's clearer that it is controlled by the Whisperer.

v1 BUILD 41 (internal):
This build makes preference changes recommended by the docs writer:

- Make the whisper alert sound only changeable from the whisper view.

- Make the in-session controls for reading whispers aloud be the only controls for it, and separate the whisper and listener values so they are remembered separately.

- Reword the bluetooth pairing setting so it's clearer that it is controlled by the Whisperer.

This build also drops the background app refresh capability, which is not needed.

v1 BUILD 42 (withdrawn) and 43 (external):
This build makes preference changes recommended by the docs writer:

- Make the whisper alert sound only changeable from the whisper view.

- Make the in-session controls for reading whispers aloud be the only controls for it, and separate the whisper and listener values so they are remembered separately.

- Reword the bluetooth pairing setting so it's clearer that it is controlled by the Whisperer.

In addition, Bluetooth is no longer required in order to use Whisper.  If it's not available, the Listen button is disabled and a message is shown explaining why.  If neither Bluetooth nor Internet are available, both Whisper and Listen are disabled and a message is shown explaining why.  If Bluetooth is available but internet is not, no message is shown but the "Share Listen Link" button is disabled when whispering.

v1 BUILD 44 (external):
This build fixes one bug and supports a better experience listening from a web browser:

- The bug that was keeping Whisperers from dropping unwanted Listeners has been fixed.

- The web listener now disconnects automatically whenever the Whisperer disconnects or when the Whisperer drops them.  So web listeners will no longer hang around on the Whisperer's sole conversation.

v1 BUILD 45 (external)
This build fixes one bug and supports a better experience when conversations end:

- The bug that was keeping Whisperers from dropping unwanted Listeners has been fixed. Now the Whisperer can drop both app listeners and web Listeners from the conversation.

- Listeners now disconnect automatically whenever the Whisperer disconnects.  So Listeners will no longer hang around on the Whisperer's sole conversation.

v1 BUILD 46 (external):
The last build made all Listeners stop listening whenever the Whisperer disconnected, but  Bluetooth Whisperers often suffer spontaneous, temporary disconnects from their Listeners.  So this build relaxes the auto-disconnect behavior for Bluetooth connections: when the Whisperer disconnects, the Listeners will keep connected and wait for the Whisperer to come back.

This build also remembers from one session to the next what size of text is being used, and whether the regular or large set of sizes is in use.

BUILD 47 (external):
There's a new feature in this build: the Whisperer can speak in any generated ElevenLabs voice they would like, and Listeners can listen to the Whisperer speak in any generated ElevenLabs voice they would like.

To enable this feature, you have to enter a valid ElevenLabs api key and voice id in Whisper's settings.  Obviously, to do this, you will need to have an ElevenLabs account, but free accounts are available at elevenlabs.io.

BUILD 48 (external):
This build introduces some creature comforts for generated speech:

v2 BUILD 3 (external):
1. If the Whisperer finishes typing a line while the previous line is still being spoken, the speaking of the new line will be queued until the speech of the previous line finishes.

2. Blank lines are not spoken.  But typing two blank lines in a row while an earlier line is being spoken will stop the speech.  (If there are queued lines waiting to be spoken, the next one will start.  Typing two more blank lines will stop it.)

BUILD 49 (external):
This build has a couple of small improvements and bug fixes:

1. Voice generation latency is slightly reduced.
2. Bluetooth-based sessions are not terminated by sleeping the whispering device.

BUILD 50 (external):
This build adds a preference to control latency suppression in speech generation.

v2 BUILDS 1 & 2 (internal):
This is the first build of v2, which supports multiple named conversations and requires both the Listeners and the Whisperer to explicitly approve (once) their participation in a given named conversation.

This build only supports Bluetooth connections. Internet will come once the transports and server have been updated.  Links can be sent to other users and will work as long as the other user is in Bluetooth range, because the app will use the link to try a Bluetooth connection.

v2 BUILD 3 (external):
This is the first build of v2, which supports multiple, named conversations (controlled by the Whisperer) and requires both the Listeners and the Whisperer to explicitly approve mutual participation in a given named conversation.

Like v1, Listeners can listen to a Whisperer either over Bluetooth or via the internet (aka Wireless).  Unlike v1, a user who clicks on a link to join a conversation in the app will join it via Bluetooth rather than Wireless if the Whisperer is local to them.

To engage in a conversation for the first time, a Listener must have received a link from the Whisperer. The first step when using the link will be for the Listener and then the Whisperer to agree to be in conversation with each other. Thereafter the Listener can directly join the conversation without further prompting.

The app remembers all conversations that its user has participated in, both as Whisperer and as Listener.  To see your Whisper conversations, long-press on the Whisper button: that will pop up an interface that allows you to create and edit conversations (including removing allowed Listeners), and to select which one will be used by default when you click the Whisper button.  To see your Listen conversations, long-press on the Listen button: that will pop up an interface that lets you see the conversation name and the Whisperer name for all conversations in which you have participated, as well as to select one of them to listen to anew (exactly like clicking on the link).

For Whisperers and Listeners who are within Bluetooth range (such as members of the same household), the app can discover any conversations the Listener has been in before that are in progress at the time.  This allows these Listeners to rejoin any of these conversations simply by clicking on the Listen button.

v2 BUILD 5 (external) & BUILD 6 (internal):
This is the first public build of v2, which supports multiple, named conversations (controlled by the Whisperer) and requires both the Listeners and the Whisperer to explicitly approve mutual participation in a given named conversation.

Like v1, Listeners can listen to a Whisperer either over Bluetooth or via the internet (aka Wireless).  Unlike v1, a user who clicks on a link to join a conversation in the app will join it via Bluetooth rather than Wireless if the Whisperer is local to them.

To engage in a conversation for the first time, a Listener must have received a link from the Whisperer. The first step when using the link will be for the Listener and then the Whisperer to agree to be in conversation with each other. Thereafter the Listener can directly join the conversation without further prompting on either side.

The app remembers all conversations that its user has participated in, both as Whisperer and as Listener.  To see your Whisper conversations, long-press on the Whisper button: that will pop up an interface that allows you to create and edit conversations (including removing allowed Listeners), and to select which one will be used by default when you click the Whisper button.  To see your Listen conversations, long-press on the Listen button: that will pop up an interface that lets you see the conversation name and the Whisperer name for all conversations in which you have participated, as well as to select one of them to listen to anew (exactly like clicking on the link).

For Whisperers and Listeners who are within Bluetooth range (such as members of the same household), the app can discover any conversations the Listener has been in before that are in progress at the time.  This allows these Listeners to rejoin any of these conversations simply by clicking on the Listen button.

Web listeners get a new, improved interface in v2.  Not only does it look better, it works more like the application in a number of ways.  First of all, the web interface always displays the name of the Whisperer and the name of the conversation, and won't connect to it until the user agrees to enter.  Second, the text typed by the Whisperer can't be copied by a web-based Listener.  Finally, the display areas for the Whisperer's live and past typing automatically adjust in size as needed.

v2 BUILDS 7 through 11 (external):
This is an updated public build of v2, which supports multiple, named conversations (controlled by the Whisperer) and requires both the Listeners and the Whisperer to explicitly approve mutual participation in a given named conversation.

Like v1, Listeners can listen to a Whisperer either over Bluetooth or via the internet (aka Wireless).  Unlike v1, a user who clicks on a link to join a conversation in the app will join it via Bluetooth rather than Wireless if the Whisperer is local to them.

To engage in a conversation for the first time, a Listener must have received a link from the Whisperer. The first step when using the link will be for the Listener and then the Whisperer to agree to be in conversation with each other. Thereafter the Listener can directly join the conversation without further prompting on either side.

The app remembers all conversations that its user has participated in, both as Whisperer and as Listener.  To see your Whisper conversations, long-press on the Whisper button: that will pop up an interface that allows you to create and edit conversations (including removing allowed Listeners), and to select which one will be used by default when you click the Whisper button.  To see your Listen conversations, long-press on the Listen button: that will pop up an interface that lets you see the conversation name and the Whisperer name for all conversations in which you have participated, as well as to select one of them to listen to anew (exactly like clicking on the link).

For Whisperers and Listeners who are within Bluetooth range (such as members of the same household), the app can discover any conversations the Listener has been in before that are in progress at the time.  This allows these Listeners to rejoin any of these conversations simply by clicking on the Listen button.

Web listeners get a new, improved interface in v2.  Not only does it look better, it works more like the application in a number of ways.  First of all, the web interface always displays the name of the Whisperer and the name of the conversation, and won't connect to it until the user agrees to enter.  Second, the text typed by the Whisperer can't be copied by a web-based Listener.  Finally, the display areas for the Whisperer's live and past typing automatically adjust in size as needed.

For Whisperers or Listeners who routinely use multiple devices, there is a new "Profile Sharing" feature which allows you to have the same user profile (including your name and all the conversations you whisper on or listen to) on all your devices.  Profile changes you make on one device will be synchronized to another device when you next open the app on that device (or long-press on the Whisper or Listen button, if the app is already open). To start using this feature, look for the "Profile Sharing" button at the bottom of the Whisper home screen.

v2 BUILD 12 (external):
This build updates the in-app instructions so they are correct for version 2.  It also matches the Bluetooth and Internet Listener behavior: when the Whisperer leaves the conversation, all the Listeners do too.

v2 BUILD 13 (external):
This build fixes a few issues related to internet connectivity, and adds a feature for users with multiple devices on a shared profile.

- Web browser listeners are now more immune to dropped packets, and should connect with fewer issues.

- When the Whisperer has an internet connectivity issue, it advises all the listeners to disconnect and reconnect immediately.  This allows them to see the Whisperer once connectivity is restored.

- If a user has multiple devices on the same shared profile, they can now stop whispering by indicating they are changing devices. This drops all listeners but sends them a message explaining they should reconnect.

v2 BUILD 14 (external):
This build uses a new Ably infrastructure library, one that fixes the bug with initial Whisper startup after launching the app.  With any luck, this should make internet-based connections very stable and reliable.

A warning dialog has been added so the Whisperer will be told when his connection had to be restarted due to the Ably initialization issue.  Please report (via TestFlight) anytime you see this dialog.

v2 BUILD 15 (external):
This build fixes a bug that always showed the Whisperer the name of a Listener as it existed when the Listener was first accepted into the conversation.  If the Listener later changed their name (either in their browser, or in their app), the Whisperer would never see the new name. With this fix, the Whisperer will always see the latest name provided by a Listener (and remember that name in the approved-Listener list).

To test this, a Whisperer can listen to themselves from a browser using one name, accept themselves into the conversation, exit the conversation in the browser, and then rejoin from the browser specifying a new name.  The Whisperer will see the new name in their status line when they rejoin from the browser.  And once they exit the session, they will see the new name in the accepted user list for that conversation.

v2 BUILD 16 (external):
This fixes the crash on launch after initial install problem that was introduced in build 2.0.0.10 (on Feb 26, 2024).  Sorry about that, new users!!

v2 BUILD 17 (external):
Starting with this build, the Share Links for conversations show the name of the conversation right after the conversation ID.  (The name has all non-letter, non-number characters replaced with '-' so the link is a valid URL.)

For example, the link for "Conversation 1" might look like this: https://whisper.clickonetwo.io/listen/664ED54A-8DE4-4CF7-9427-0E83A1495BEE/Conversation-1

v2 BUILD 18 (external):
The app now recognizes when a user is whispering to themself and automatically authorizes them to join the conversation. This allows people who use shared profiles to have one of their devices be dedicated to listening and have it always be able to listen to every conversation (including via local discovery) without ever being sent a link or using the "accept" UI.

To support this, the view that shows all the conversations you have listened to now separates conversations sent you by others from conversations you own.  This allows you both to select one of the ones you own to listen to and it always shows all your conversations whether you have listened to it before or not.

Users who don't use shared profiles won't notice any changes in this build.

v2 BUILD 19 and 20 (external):
The default Listener layout now matches the Whisperer's (live text on the bottom, past text on the top).  This makes the past text read from top to bottom, which is a lot easier for most people to understand.

If you never explicitly set your preference (in Settings) for this, your Listener layout will switch when you install this build.  If you did explicitly set it to be "top" or "bottom" live text, then it will stay the way you set it.

v2 BUILD 21 (external):
This build introduces changes in the way you start whispering or listening:

1. There is no more "discovery" of ongoing conversations.  You always have to pick a specific conversation to whisper on or listen to.

2. The default behavior of tapping the Whisper button is now customizable (via Settings). You can either have it (a) pop up the list of conversations for you to choose one, (b) start your default conversation, or (c) start the last conversation you were whispering on.

3. The default behavior of tapping the Listen button is now customizable (via Settings). You can either have it (a) pop up the list of conversations for you to choose one or (b) reconnect to the last conversation you were listening to.

No matter your preference settings, if there is only one conversation you have ever used (for whispering or listening, respectively), then tapping the Whisper or Listen button will always select that conversation.  You can always long-press the button to pop up the list of conversations.

v2 BUILD 22 (external):
This build extends profile sharing to include the user's Whisper preferences (in the Settings app), that is, to include the ElevenLabs API preferences, listener layout, and the behavior of the Whisper and Listen buttons when tapped.

If you are already using a shared profile, the first device on which you launch this build will update your shared profile with the current preferences on that device.  These preferences will then be copied to your other devices as you launch them with this build.

CAUTION: Although this "add the current settings to an existing shared profile" behavior has been pretty well tested on multiple devices, bugs are always possible. Users with existing shared profiles are advised to document their preferences (especially the Elevenlabs magic numbers) before they launch this build in order to make sure they don't get lost.

v2 BUILD 23 (external):
This build introduces the ability to have multiple app windows (except on iPhone), each with their own whisper or listen session.

On Mac, the windows appear in tabs by default, but the tabs can be pulled out into a separate window so multiple sessions are visible at once.  You create a new window with the File>New Window command (Command-N).

On iPad, you can use the three-dot control at the top of the screen to open new windows (and arrange two windows side-by-side), or you can use the Stage Manager to control your windows.

v2 BUILD 24 (external):
This build rebrands the app to be named "See Me Type!"

This build also fixes a bug on phone and iPad where moving the app to the background would quit any existing whisper session.

v2 BUILD 25 (external):
This build fixes a number of subtle bugs that were crashing the app when a listen link was sent to it either at launch or immediately after launch.

v2 BUILD 26 (external):
This build changes the branding back to "Whisper".

There is now better notification to the Whisperer whenever a Listener joins a conversation: the status detail view opens, and the newest Listener is at the top of the list.

v2 BUILD 27 (external):
This build fixes a number of convenience and cosmetic issues:

1. The Whisper view now focuses the live text area when returning from the background.
2. The Listen view was not always updating the conversation name properly; now it does.
3. The titles of windows are now always correct.
4. On the iPad, the titles of windows in the background are more readable.

v2 BUILD 28 (external):
This build shows network status when only one of Bluetooth or Wifi is available.  This is needed to guide users as to what kinds of connections are possible.

This is the App Store submit build for version 2.

BUILD 2000101 (v2.0.1.1) (external):
This build introduces a number of changes intended to make internet-based connections much more stable.  The following problems that users reported should now be fixed:

- Listeners who tried to join a conversation, especially for the first time, were told they were waiting for the Whisperer forever.  They had to stop and reconnect to join the conversation. Now the connection will succeed the first time.
- If a Whisperer slept their device, they would sometimes see a notice when they resumed that the conversation had ended, and would have to restart the session.  But their Listeners got no notice of this and had to be told to restart. Now sessions do not stop if either Whisperers or Listeners sleep their devices.

This build also adds a lot logging from clients to the Whisper server, so reports of problems from clients can be diagnosed on the server side.  Please do submit screenshots whenever you encounter an issue, and give a description of what happened.

BUILD 2010001 (v2.1.0 build 1) (external):
This build allows you to make use of ElevenLabs pronunciation dictionaries.  If you add a dictionary ID string and dictionary version string to the Whisper settings, that dictionary will be used when generating ElevenLabs speech.

As with all settings, the dictionary settings will be sync'd to other devices that share your profile.  Just be sure you choose one device on which to install this build and add the dictionary settings on that device *before* you upgrade the build and launch Whisper on your other devices, so they will be sure to retrieve the new preferences.

BUILD 2010002 (v2.1.0 build 2) (external):
This build fixes a few cosmetic issues with window titling on iPads and Macs.

BUILD 2020001 - v2.2.0.1 - external:
This build fixes a bug in v2.1 that caused shared profiles not to sync correctly when new preferences were added. It also displays the build number in the release version string.

BUILD 2020002 - v2.2.0.2:
This build adds a preference in the client that controls whether or not whisper conversations are auto-transcribed by the server.  The default value is NO, to maintain consistency with prior versions.

BUILD 2020003 - v2.2.3:
This build provides Whisperers access to the transcripts of their past conversations (assuming they've turned on transcription). In the Whisper profile view (long press on Whisper), click on a conversation to go into its detail view.  You will see a new "See Transcripts" item that brings up a list of past transcripts, ordered reverse chronologically.

Build v2.2.4 (2020004):
This build provides cosmetic consistency to the Whisper and Listen profile views.  There are no new features.

Build v2.2.5 (202005):
This build has cosmetic changes to transcript views, but no functional changes. It is being submitted to the app store for release.

Build v2.3.1 (2030001):
This build prevents iOS devices from sleeping when whispering or listening.

Build v2.3.2 (2030002):
This build ignores spaces before or after ElevenLabs values in the Settings.  This should eliminate a common problem with entering these values.

This build introduces better messaging on connection errors, so the user is prompted about how to fix the problem.

Build v2.3.3 (2030003) and v2.3.4 (2030004):
This build incorporates several new features and changes requested by users:

- There is now a "repeat" button just to the right of the "speak/don't speak" button. Pressing this button will repeat the last full line entered by the Whisperer (speaking it if speech was on). Repeat leaves any current live text undisturbed, so the last line can be repeated even after the Whisperer has started to type something else.

- There is now an "interject" button just to the right of the "repeat" button. Pressing this button will save and clear the in-progress live text, allowing the Whisperer to quickly type an interjection and then, when they press the button again (or hit return), restoring the text they were typing before. While an interjection is in progress, the live text type-in area is very heavily outlined, and the "interject" button shows a different icon indicating that the interjection is in progress.

- There are two new Settings that control the behavior of the "interject" button. The first allows the Whisperer to provide an automatic prefix for each interjection (e.g., "Please wait"), and the second allows playing one of the alert sounds automatically when the interject button is pressed.

- The buttons for "Whisper" and "Listen" that are next to the conversation names in the profile windows are now larger and easier to press.

- When a Whisper or Listen session is in progress, the screen of your device will not go to black.

- The status line in the Listen session makes it clear when you are waiting for the Whisperer to accept you into a conversation.

- Errors generating speech with ElevenLabs are now reported to the user, so they can see if they have issues in their settings. And if there is an ElevenLabs problem, the app falls back to generating the speech with Apple's technology.

Build v2.3.5 (2030005):
This build incorporates several new features and changes requested by users:

- There is now a "repeat" button just to the right of the "speak/don't speak" button. Pressing this button will repeat the last, non-blank, full line entered by the Whisperer (speaking it if speech was on). Repeat leaves any current live text undisturbed, so the last line can be repeated even after the Whisperer has started to type something else.

- There is now an "interject" button just to the right of the "repeat" button. Pressing this button will save and clear the in-progress live text, allowing the Whisperer to quickly type an interjection and then, when they press the button again (or hit return), restoring the text they were typing before. While an interjection is in progress, the live text type-in area is very heavily outlined, and the "interject" button shows a different icon indicating that the interjection is in progress.

- There are two new Settings that control the behavior of the "interject" button. The first allows the Whisperer to provide an automatic prefix for each interjection (e.g., "Please wait"), and the second allows playing one of the alert sounds automatically when the interject button is pressed.

- The buttons for "Whisper" and "Listen" that are next to the conversation names in the profile windows are now larger and easier to press.

- When a Whisper or Listen session is in progress, the screen of your device will not go to black.

- The status line in the Listen session makes it clear when you are waiting for the Whisperer to accept you into a conversation.

- Errors generating speech with ElevenLabs are now reported to the user, so they can see if they have issues in their settings. And if there is an ElevenLabs problem, the app falls back to generating the speech with Apple's technology.

Build v2.3.6 (2030006):
This build fixes bugs in the interjection settings and makes interjection settings changes propagate properly among devices that use a shared profile.  It also fixes a bug wherein ending an interjection by hitting return versus hitting the interjection button had slightly different behaviors.

Build v2.3.7 (2030007):
There was still a bug in the way shared profiles worked: the new settings profile including the new interjection settings were not being shared.  Now they are.

If you are a shared profile user, be sure to install this build *first* on a machine that has your desired interjection settings.  Those settings will then correctly get shared to other machines that you install the new build on.

Build v2.3.8 (2030008):
Amazingly, there was yet another bug in the way shared profiles worked: the new settings profile including the new interjection settings were not being uploaded and downloaded correctly.  Now they are.

If you are a shared profile user, be sure to install this build *first* on a machine that has your desired interjection settings.  Those settings will then correctly get shared to other machines that you install the new build on.

Build v2.4.1 (2040001):
This release introduces quite a few long-requested features for both Whisperers and Listeners. Please use the feedback mechanisms in TestFlight to send feedback about how these work for you, and how they could be improved:

- Favorites! Whisperers can now create named favorites with pre-saved text that can be inserted into a conversation just by tapping on the name of the favorite.

- There is a Favorites button on the home screen which brings up an Edit Favorites window that allows creating and editing favorites and groups and putting favorites into groups.

- Press the new "star" button in the Whisperer's controls to bring up a Use Favorites window with buttons for each named favorite. Pressing one of the buttons inserts the favorite into the conversation just as if you had typed it, without disturbing any text you are already typing. On an iPad, the Use Favorites window appears to the right of the past text.  On an iPhone, it replaces the past text. Pressing the "star" button again hides the Use Favorites window. Whether the Use Favorites window should show is remembered from session to session.

- Long press the new "star" button to see a menu that allows choosing which group of favorites you want shown in the Use Favorites list. There is also an Edit Favorites item on that menu which brings up the Edit Favorites window. Which list of favorites to use is remembered from session to session.

- Whisperers now see buttons next to each of their (non-empty) past lines that allow them to quickly repeat, interject, or make a favorite out of that line's content. If the past line contains a favorite, the "make favorite" button (an empty star) changes to be "edit favorite" (a filled star). If you don't want all three buttons, you can choose the ones you want in your Settings.

- If you use ElevenLabs to generate your speech, each favorite now remembers the generated speech so inserting the favorite starts speaking immediately. The Edit Favorites view also allows generating the speech again so you can generate different speech several times and remember the best of them.

- Listeners can now hear an old-fashioned typing-on-a-typewriter sound whenever the Whisperer starts to type, notifying them to look at what's being typed (and filling the silence so they're not tempted to talk over the Whisperer). When the Whisperer finishes typing (hitting the return key) there is an old-fashioned "hitting the carriage return" sound and the typing sound stops. The button to turn these sounds on and off is at the left end of the Listener controls, and the setting is remembered from session to session.

- Listeners can now share conversation links with other listeners.  There is a share button both in the list of past conversations and in the status line during a conversation.

- Listeners can now copy/paste conversation links into the Whisper app. In the list of past conversations, there is now a + button to add a new link.  If there is a conversation link on the clipboard when the plus button is pressed, the app will try to join that conversation. Otherwise, it will open a window where the user can type in (or paste in) the desired conversation link.

Build 2.4.2 (2040002):
This build fixes quite a few bugs around the edges of all the new features that were introduced in the last build.  For example:

1. Loading a 2.4.1 build for the first time would completely reset your profile, so you lost your conversation history.  This was especially troublesome for shared profile users, since it would happen more than once.  That has now been fixed.

2. The past text window for Whisperers would consistently scroll so that the penultimate line was at the bottom of the window and the last line was hidden.

3. Renaming favorites or groups, and changing the text content of a favorite, could cause the favorites profile to become corrupted. Quitting the app and restarting was necessary to clean things up. These operations now work correctly. 

Build 2.4.3 (2040003):
This build adds the ability for Whisperers to send transcript links to Listeners:

- Once one or more Listeners have joined a conversation, the Whisperer is shown an eyeglass button on the status line as well as an eyeglass button on each listed Listener in the detailed status view.  Pressing the eyeglass button on the status line sends a transcript link to every currently connected listener.  Pressing the eyeglass button on a specific Listener line sends a transcript link just to that specific listener.

- In the app, when a Listener is sent a transcript link by the Whisperer, an eyeglass button appears in the status line.  Pressing that button opens the transcript in a web browser. In addition, when the Whisperer ends the conversation (or the Listener stops Listening), a sheet appears on the Listener side that gives the transcript link again.

- In a web browser, when a Listener is sent a transcript link by the Whisperer, a "Transcript Available" link appears just above the past text window.  In addition, when the conversation ends, the final screen gives the transcript link again.  Either link opens a new window (or tab) on the transcript.

- While a conversation is in session, opening the transcript gives an "in-progress" message. Once the conversation is over, refreshing the page will show the final transcript.  (The link to the transcript never changes, and can be saved at any time.)

- Whisperers can press the eyeglass button as often as they want, for example to send the transcript to Listeners who join the conversation later.

- Final transcripts always show the entire conversation, regardless of when a Listener who was sent the link joined or exited the conversation.

Build 2.4.4 (2040004):
This build fixes bugs and adds a few features:

- When the Whisperer types a link and it goes to past text, it becomes "hot" so clicking on it opens the link in a new browser window (or tab). In the app, the link appears in the past text. In the browser, it appears in a list of links at the bottom of the page.

- Typing sounds are now available to browser listeners.

- The Whisperer's buttons to send and edit favorites now are the same size as all the other text, so the font size controls work on them.

- Transcript windows for a conversation that's in progress auto-refresh every one minute, so they will automatically show the transcript once the conversation is over.

- The times at the top of transcripts are now shown in the Whisperer's timezone.

Build 2.4.5 (2040005):
This release adds many, many features:

- There is now a volume control for the typing sound: long-press on the typing sound button to get a menu of volume levels.

- There is now a "Large Type" control that affects the home screen and the various profile views. This setting is independent of the font size choice when Whispering or Listening.

- There are now only 8 type sizes available for Whispering and Listening, as the "normal but bolded" size has been removed (in both regular and large sizes).  So now each type size is different from the other sizes.  The range from smallest to largest is the same.

- The typing sound on/off icons have been clarified and made more readable.

Release 2.4 (build 2.4.5 on AppStore):
This release introduces quite a few long-requested features for both Whisperers and Listeners.

- Whisperers can now create named favorites with pre-saved text that can be inserted into a conversation just by tapping on the name of the favorite. If you use a shared profile, all your devices will have the same favorites.

- There is a Favorites button on the home screen which brings up an Edit Favorites window that allows creating and editing favorites and groups and putting favorites into groups.

- Press the Favorites (star) button in the Whisperer's controls to bring up a Use Favorites window with buttons for each named favorite. Pressing one of the buttons inserts the favorite into the conversation just as if you had typed it, without disturbing any text you are already typing.

- Long press the Favorites button to see a menu that allows choosing which group of favorites you want shown in the Favorites list. There is also an Edit Favorites item on that menu which brings up the Edit Favorites window.

- Whisperers now see buttons next to each of their (non-empty) past lines that allow them to quickly repeat, interject, or make a favorite out of that line's content. If you don't want all three buttons, you can choose the ones you want in your Settings.

- If you use ElevenLabs to generate your speech, each favorite now remembers the generated speech so inserting the favorite starts speaking immediately.

- Listeners can now hear an old-fashioned typing-on-a-typewriter sound whenever the Whisperer starts to type, notifying them to look at what's being typed (and filling the silence so they're not tempted to talk over the Whisperer). The button to turn these sounds on and off is at the left end of the Listener controls. Long pressing on that button allows you to adjust the volume of the typing sound.

- Listeners can now share conversation links with other listeners.

- Listeners can now copy/paste conversation links into the Whisper app. In the list of past conversations, there is now a + button to add a new link.  If there is a conversation link on the clipboard when the plus button is pressed, the app will try to join that conversation. Otherwise, it will open a window where the user can type in (or paste in) the desired conversation link.

- Whisperers who use transcripts can now share those transcripts with Listeners directly from within a conversation session. Once one or more Listeners have joined a conversation, the Whisperer is shown an eyeglass button on the status line as well as an eyeglass button on each listed Listener in the detailed status view.  Pressing the eyeglass button on the status line sends a transcript link to every currently connected listener.  Pressing the eyeglass button on a specific Listener line sends a transcript link just to that specific listener.

- When a Listener is sent a transcript link by the Whisperer, a show-transcript button appears in the status line (and again at the end of the conversation).  Pressing that button opens the transcript in a web browser.

- There is now a "Large Type" control that affects the home screen and the various profile views. This setting is independent of the font size choice when Whispering or Listening.

BUILD 2.5.1 (2050001):
This is purely a bug fix release: the "How To Use" button led to a broken link. In addition, inconsistencies in the Whisper Conversations screen have been fixed, and the online instructions have been overhauled to document the app's behavior more completely.

BUILD 2.6.1 (2060001):
This build makes the "typing sound" button (and typing sounds) available when whispering.

BUILD 2.6.2 (2060002):
This build introduces changes for both Whisperers and Listeners:

- The buttons at the top of the Whisper and Listen screens are now smaller on phones, in order to provide more space for the past text and live text areas (and to allow more buttons in the Whisper screen).
- The "Stop" button at the top of the Whisper and Listen screens has been changed to the icon of an (octagonal) stop sign with an exclamation mark in it. It's in the same place and works exactly the same way as the "Stop" button, but is now visually consistent with all of the other controls.

In addition, for Whisperers there is another change:

- There is a now a "clear" button (with an eraser icon) at the top of the Whisper screen, to the right of the "speech on/off" button and the left of the "repeat" button. Pressing the clear button erases all the text in the type-in area.

Build 2.6.3 (206003):
This build introduces a second typing sound. Users can choose their desired typing sound in the same menu that they choose the volume for the sound.

The stop button has been colored red to make clear that it's a destructive operation, unlike the other accent color icons.

Build 2.6.4 (206004):
The typing sound menu now indicates which of the two typing sounds is currently being used.

Build 2.6.5 (206005):
No functional or cosmetic changes; small dev cleanups.

This will be the next release of version 2.

Build 2.6.6 (206006):
Make sure the status-bar pop-up view is scrollable, in case there are a lot of Listeners.

Build 2.6.7 (206007):
Fix three annoying bugs:

- Make sure the status-bar pop-up view is scrollable, in case there are a lot of Listeners.

- Open instructions web page in safari, not the app.

- Can't do profile sharing while editing your name.

Why do bugs always appear right when you're getting ready to release?

========
App Store Release of 2.6.7:
This release has two new features:

- You can now have the app play a typing sound while the whisperer is typing. This sound has proved very helpful in getting Listeners to pay attention to their screen rather than talking while the Whisperer is typing.

- There is now a Clear button in the Whisperer controls, for clearing the live text area.

There are also two cosmetic changes:

- The "Stop" button when whispering and listening is now a stop-sign icon rather than a word.

- When you open the app instructions, they open in a separate browser app so you can go back and forth between the instructions and the app easily.

There are some bug fixes as well: 

- The pop-up status detail view now scrolls if needed.

- Profile Sharing is disabled until you enter your name.

Finally, the instructions have been expanded and updated to cover all app functionality. Many thanks to guest editor Lucy M.
=========

Build 2.7.1 (2070001):
The beta program is being restarted now that the app is being published by Software in the Public Interest rather than ClickOneTwo LLC.

This first beta has no functional changes whatsoever from the prior released version, but because it's from a new publisher TestFlight may require deleting your existing app (and app data) before you can install this one. IF SO, you can preserve all your settings and conversations by "sharing your profile" in your existing app BEFORE you delete it. Hit the "profile sharing" button on the home page of the app, then hit "Start Profile Sharing" and carefully write down the profile ID and password you are shown. Then, once you delete your old app and install the new beta and fill in your name, you can hit the "profile sharing" button again and reload your profile by filling in the profile ID and password you saved.

Builds 2.7.2, 2.7.3 (2070002, 2070003):
The beta program is being restarted now that the app is being published by Software in the Public Interest rather than ClickOneTwo LLC.

This first beta has one cosmetic and one functional change:

Cosmetic: The documentation and support web pages for the app are now in a different place, and the links to them from the app have been updated accordingly.

Functional: In response to a request received in an app review (yes, we read those ;), I have added a new Whisperer setting called "Status Bar on top". When you turn this on, it removes the "Share Listener Link" (and all touch sensitivity) from the mid-screen status bar, so that assistive keyboards do not accidentally trigger them. Instead, a "Status" button (showing a person with a question mark) appears at the left of the top "control" bar: clicking the status button will pop up the detailed status view (which now contains the Share Listener Link and other buttons that would be on the status bar).

=======
Release notes for build 2.7.3:
This version introduces one new feature and one cosmetic change.

New feature: There is a new Whisperer setting called "Status Bar on top". When you turn this on, it removes the "Share Listener Link" (and all touch sensitivity) from the mid-screen status bar, so that assistive keyboards do not accidentally trigger these controls. Instead, a "Status" button (showing a person with a question mark) appears at the left of the top bar of controls: clicking this status button will pop up the detailed status view (which now contains the Share Listener Link and other buttons that would be on the status bar).

Cosmetic change: Because this app is now published by the non-profit Whisper Project (a project of Software in the Public Interest), rather than by ClickOneTwo Consulting LLC, the web pages for instructional and support content have changed locations.
========
Release notes for build 2.8.0:
The release of the new Tahoe OS on iPad and Mac has brought with it some bugs that can cause the Whisperer's app to be restarted by the OS while it's in the middle of a conversation. This new build allows a Whisperer to rejoin an existing conversation that they were in before the crash occurred. The Listeners won't even know the crash happened.

In order for the resume behavior to be completely seamless, both Whisperers and Listeners have to be running this new build. If only the Whisperer runs it, but the Listeners are not, then the Whisperer will not know who's in the conversation after resuming it.
=========
Release notes for build 2.8.1:
With this build, Whisper can resume multiple conversations independently after a crash, so ending one of multiple conversations before the crash will not prevent resuming the other conversations after the crash.
=========
Release notes for build 2.8.2:
With this build, Whisper manages each window in an independent scene, so dismissing an *inactive* window will not terminate sessions in other active or inactive windows. BUT. If you dismiss the active window, the OS will quit the app, so all sessions in all windows will be terminated. They can be resumed easily, but the reason it looks like the app has crashed is that you dismissed the active window.
=========
Release notes for build 2.8.3:
Whisper now remembers exactly which state each of its windows was in, and resumes that state whenever that window is brought to the front. It no longer matters if the app has been terminated (either by the user or by the OS) between the time that window went to the background and the time it was brought back to the front.

Both Listeners and Whisperers should update to this build.
==========
Release notes for build 2.8.4:
This build finalizes the work on window-associated status:

- Closing a whispering window saves the status of the session, including past and live text.

- Closing a listening window remembers the conversation being listened to, but none of the text.

- Reopening a closed window resumes the remembered session in that window (if any).

- Quitting the app is just treated as "close all windows" with their state intact. When the app is next launched, all the windows will be reopened, and the window active at quit time will be resumed.

- The only way a session ends is by explicit user action (hit the stop sign). Once that's done, any saved data associated with the session is cleared.

Both Whisperers and Listeners should update to this build.

NOTE 1: Due to changes in the way sessions are remembered, any window sessions that were saved by earlier builds will be lost when you install this build.

NOTE 2: Sessions can only be saved from windows that connect over the Internet (not via Bluetooth). By default, all sessions connect over Internet only. If the Whisperer's Internet is not available but Bluetooth is, then any whisper session they start will use Bluetooth. For that session, listeners must use Bluetooth to connect (which means they will have to turn off Internet if it's available on their device).
===========
Release notes for build 2.8.5:
This build offers much clearer controls over the use of Internet vs. Bluetooth:

- There is a new setting, "Always use Bluetooth", which is OFF by default but can be used to force the use of Bluetooth if Internet connectivity is flaky or not available.

- In the home screen, the app always displays whether Internet or Bluetooth will be used for the next session, and the display also offers the chance to switch back and forth so you don't have to go to the Settings screen.

This build also makes a number of cosmetic fixes:

- The entire home screen now fits on a phone in landscape mode.

- On iPads, the "Large Sizes" toggle in the Whisper and Listen control areas is no longer truncated.

- The version of the app now appears in the "About" button, rather than as a separate string at the bottom of the home screen.

- The "Larger Type" option for the Home Screen is not available on the phone, because there's not really enough space to accomodate the larger type. This removal makes it impossible to increase the sizes of the Favorites and Profile Sharing screens on phones. If that presents a problem for you, please submit feedback via TestFlight to the developer, or email him directly at dan@whisper-project.org.
=========
Release notes for build 2.8.6:
This build fixes a bug which caused whisper session data to be lost when the app was first put into the background and the quit. Session data should be reliably saved in this build in all cases. Please test that.
=========
Release notes for build 2.8.7:
This build (finally) brings the two features requested most often by users:

- In the list of Whisper conversations (gotten to by long-pressing the Whisper button), clicking on the name now starts that conversation (rather than showing a detail view). If you want to edit the conversation details (or see transcripts, etc.), you now click the edit icon to the right of the conversation in the list.

- In the list of Listen conversations (gotten to by long-pressing the Listen button), clicking on the name now starts listening to that conversation.

Enjoy!
==========